Report.md, before:


# Experiment

We run the [BigGAN]() workflow in both [SATORI]() - MIT's super computing cluster with IBM Power PC CPUs, and on OpenShift on the [Mass Open Cloud]() also with  IBM Power PC CPUs.

The instructions to run BigGAN on Satori are [here](). These instructions are our starting point.

# The BigGAN workflow

# Running on Satori

We use the instructions to run BigGAN on Satori given [here](). We use 2 GPUs for training. We measured the CPU usage, GPU usage and memory usage while training. 

## CPU usage
![satori cpu usage](https://github.com/BU-CLOUD-S20/Cloud-native-deployments-of-bare-metal-high-performance-AI-workflows/blob/master/doc/imgs/sat-cpu.png)

## Memory usage
![satori memory usage](https://github.com/BU-CLOUD-S20/Cloud-native-deployments-of-bare-metal-high-performance-AI-workflows/blob/master/doc/imgs/sat-mem.png)


## GPU usage

![satori gpu usage](https://github.com/BU-CLOUD-S20/Cloud-native-deployments-of-bare-metal-high-performance-AI-workflows/blob/master/doc/imgs/sat-gpu.png)

## Memory usage
![satori gpu memory usage](https://github.com/BU-CLOUD-S20/Cloud-native-deployments-of-bare-metal-high-performance-AI-workflows/blob/master/doc/imgs/sat-gpu-mem.png)

Commit message:

Add comments on Satori usage

Report.md, after:


# Experiment

We run the [BigGAN]() workflow in both [SATORI]() - MIT's super computing cluster with IBM Power PC CPUs, and on OpenShift on the [Mass Open Cloud]() also with  IBM Power PC CPUs.

The instructions to run BigGAN on Satori are [here](). These instructions are our starting point.

# The BigGAN workflow

# Running on Satori

We use the instructions to run BigGAN on Satori given [here](). We use 2 GPUs for training. We measured the CPU usage, GPU usage and memory usage while training. 

## CPU usage

Here we notice that the BigGAN workflow consumes just less than 20 % CPU on average. 

![satori cpu usage](https://github.com/BU-CLOUD-S20/Cloud-native-deployments-of-bare-metal-high-performance-AI-workflows/blob/master/doc/imgs/sat-cpu.png)

## Memory usage

The memory usage lingers around 8.3%. For the node that we are running on, this is around 95 GB used of 1145 GB available.

![satori memory usage](https://github.com/BU-CLOUD-S20/Cloud-native-deployments-of-bare-metal-high-performance-AI-workflows/blob/master/doc/imgs/sat-mem.png)


## GPU usage

The GPUs are fully utilized, both GPUs running at almost full capacity. Take note, that this was a shared node, and there might be other users processes running on this GPU node. The workflow can be run in an exlusive node to get the exact usage by only the BigGAN process. However, exclusive nodes are very hard to get scheduled on Satori, in our experience.


![satori gpu usage](https://github.com/BU-CLOUD-S20/Cloud-native-deployments-of-bare-metal-high-performance-AI-workflows/blob/master/doc/imgs/sat-gpu.png)

## GPU Memory usage

The GPU memory is also pretty well utilized. It is Consistently measured around 80%. 

![satori gpu memory usage](https://github.com/BU-CLOUD-S20/Cloud-native-deployments-of-bare-metal-high-performance-AI-workflows/blob/master/doc/imgs/sat-gpu-mem.png)
