REPORT.md, before:


<h2 align="center"> Bare Metal High Performance AI Final Report </h2>

In this project, we take an AI workfow - [BigGAN](https://github.com/BU-CLOUD-S20/Cloud-native-deployments-of-bare-metal-high-performance-AI-workflows/blob/update-readme/README.md#mit-satori) in our case - that is operational in MIT's HPC [Satori](https://mit-satori.github.io/) (modded with IBM Power PC CPUs, NVIDIA V100 GPUs, etc.) and convert it to a running workflow on OpenShift ([Mass Open Cloud](https://massopen.cloud/)) to measure similarities and to delineate the process of moving an application from a bare metal environment to a cloud native platform.

The instructions to run BigGAN on Satori are [here](https://github.com/BU-CLOUD-S20/Cloud-native-deployments-of-bare-metal-high-performance-AI-workflows/blob/update-readme/README.md#mit-satori). These instructions are our starting point.

***
# Index
1. [Conclusions](#Conclusions)
2. [Running On Satori](#Running-on-Satori)
3. [Running on Mass Open Cloud](#Running-on-OpenShift-on-MOC)

|                  | MIT Satori    | MOC  |
| :-------------:  |:-------------:| -----:|
| GPU Architecture | TESLA V100 32GB | TESLA V100 32GB |
| CPU Architecture | IBM Power9      |   IBM Power9 |

# 1. Conclusions

<!-- ### 1. Efficiency 
`Measured as the ratio of useful output to total input (measured in CPU/GPU cycles here)` 
- Text for efficiency here...
  - more text here... -->

<!-- ### 2. Scalability 
`The ability of the cloud platform to function well when it's changed in size or volume in order to meet a user need (i.e. to rescale).`  -->

## 1. Elasticity

We selected the BigGAN workflow from a pool of [tutorial examples](https://mit-satori.github.io/tutorial-examples/index.html) offered on the Satori platform.  

We looked into each of the existing examples(workflows) and observed that they all used popular python-written machine learning library such as Tensorflow, PyTorch and Sklearn.  

We further investigate whether these software frameworks allow dynamic resource utilization. In other words, we want to know if these libraries allow the programs to scale-up  resource utilization when the instance(s) it's running in was(were) allocated with more computing resources.

Since the BigGAN workflow is written in PyTorch, we wil focus on discussing the possibility of running/training Pytorch programs in an "elastic manner":

### 1.1 Elasticity for PyTorch
According to Pytorch documentation [link here](https://pytorch.org/blog/pytorch-adds-new-tools-and-libraries-welcomes-preferred-networks-to-its-community/#tools-for-elastic-training-and-large-scale-computer-vision),  current PyTorch parallelism is achieved by something called **Distributed Data Parallel (DPP)** module, and it has following short-commings:  

1. Parallel jobs cannot start without aquiring all the request nodes(pod/containers).
2. Parallel jobs is not recoverable from node(pod/container) failures.
3. Parallel jobs is not able to incorporate nodes that join later.

Recently the comunity is working on incorporating **elastic training** functionality to PyTorch. Experimental implementation of the functionality can be found at [PyTorch-Elastic](https://github.com/pytorch/elastic).  

However, **PyTorch-Elastic** only supports AWS environment with Amazon Sagemaker and Elastic Kubernetes Service(EKS) and haven't support OpenShift yet.  

After discussion among group members, we figure that given the time and scope of our project, we might not be able to finish adapting **PyTorch-Elastic** to OpenShift environment and re-writing the BigGAN workflow using PyTorch-Elastic APIs by the end of the semester. We will leave it as a future TODO for now.
<!-- <h5 align="center"> shawn </h5> -->


## 2. Automation 
Compared with Satori, OpenShift does have more advantages on tasks automation. We depolyed the AI workflow on OpenShift by using `DeploymentConfig`, `BuildConfig`, `Dockerfile`. The codes of AI workflow are on the Github repository, and we can set the triggers inside `BuildConfig` which makes `BuildConfig` be triggered after we pushing new changes to the Github repository, which can build a new image based on our new codes **automatically**, and after the build finished, it will trigger `DeploymentConfig` to start deploy a container from the image built just now **automatically**. The only thing for researchers need to do is just push the new codes, and the AI workflows can be deployed **automatically** and get the result, without requesting node resources or submitting bash jobs.

![](https://www.lucidchart.com/publicSegments/view/35091b47-7861-4f5d-a2e9-5e4afddfaaaf/image.png)

## 3. Environment Comparisons
 
![Typical AI workflow](https://github.com/BU-CLOUD-S20/Cloud-native-deployments-of-bare-metal-high-performance-AI-workflows/blob/update-readme/ReadMe-image/ai-workflow.png)

### 3.1 Components

A typical AI workflow has deals with a lot state. The computation steps are resource intensive and long running. The model training step can run for a few days on the training datasets of size ~200 GB even on powerful hardware such as the Telsa V100 GPUs. The output model is contantly iterated upon during at the end of training loops, and the state is checkpointed typically at the end of every epoch.

### 3.2 Scheduling

In a traditional HPC system like Satori, to run a job, you submit a  request for specific amount of resources, e.g. 4 GPUs and 2 CPUs. The scheduler waits for the resources to free, and then assigns the job.

In a Kubernetes based environment, you make request to the scheduler, and the scheduler tries its best to provide you with the request resouces. However, it is not guaranteed that the resources alloted to you will not change during the lifecycle of the computation.


### 3.3 Environment Issues
<!-- <h2 align="center"> Environment Issues </h2> -->
<!-- <h5 align="center"> shawn + jing </h5> -->

- Trouble accessing GPU(s) on MoC
  * **Solution**: Specify CUDA related environment variables in deployconfig. (worked until Sprint 4)
- Nvidia cards randomly unavailable
  * **Solution**: None.
  * **Workaround**: Try more times. (worked until Sprint 4)
- Cannot get enough quota for volume
  * **Solution**: MoC administrator granted volume to our OpenShift account.
- Pod creation timeout when mounting volume
  * **Solution**: Currently still blocked. Requires support from MoC.
  * **Workaround**: Manually copied subset of data and build into our base image to make the workflow runnable.
- Trouble pushing to internal image registry on OpenShift
  * **Description**: OpenShift reports error when pulling/pushing image to internel image registry. Possibly due to DNS mapping error on MoC. Currently we can not run any pods that uses our image on OpenShift.
  * **Solution**: Currently still blocked. Requires support from MoC.
  * **Workaround**: None.

## 4. Lessons Learned
1. We should ask for mentors' help as soon as possible instead of trying debugging the issue by ourselves so that we may not stuck into one problem for a long time.
2. We should make an alternative plan to make sure what we can at least achieve before each sprint started (based on Covid-19 situation), so we can handle the situation which may delay our progress.
3. We should set up a weekly group time for working together, which is more efficiently integrating our work (we actually started this after sprint 3).


# 2. Running on Satori

We use the instructions to run BigGAN on Satori given [here](https://github.com/BU-CLOUD-S20/Cloud-native-deployments-of-bare-metal-high-performance-AI-workflows/blob/update-readme/README.md#mit-satori). We use 2 GPUs for training. We measured the CPU usage, GPU usage and memory usage while training. 

## CPU usage

Here we notice that the BigGAN workflow consumes just less than 20 % CPU on average. 

![satori cpu usage](https://github.com/BU-CLOUD-S20/Cloud-native-deployments-of-bare-metal-high-performance-AI-workflows/blob/master/doc/imgs/sat-cpu.png)

## Memory usage

The memory usage lingers around 8.3%. For the node that we are running on, this is around 95 GB used of 1145 GB available.

![satori memory usage](https://github.com/BU-CLOUD-S20/Cloud-native-deployments-of-bare-metal-high-performance-AI-workflows/blob/master/doc/imgs/sat-mem.png)


## GPU usage

The GPUs are fully utilized, both GPUs running at almost full capacity. Take note, that this was a shared node, and there might be other users processes running on this GPU node. The workflow can be run in an exlusive node to get the exact usage by only the BigGAN process. However, exclusive nodes are very hard to get scheduled on Satori, in our experience.


![satori gpu usage](https://github.com/BU-CLOUD-S20/Cloud-native-deployments-of-bare-metal-high-performance-AI-workflows/blob/master/doc/imgs/sat-gpu.png)

## GPU Memory usage

The GPU memory is also pretty well utilized. It is Consistently measured around 80%. 

![satori gpu memory usage](https://github.com/BU-CLOUD-S20/Cloud-native-deployments-of-bare-metal-high-performance-AI-workflows/blob/master/doc/imgs/sat-gpu-mem.png)

***

# 3. Running on OpenShift on MOC

We created a docker container that runs the training process of BigGAN. We modified the instructions to run BigGAN on Satori, and use the scripts [here](https://github.com/BU-CLOUD-S20/Cloud-native-deployments-of-bare-metal-high-performance-AI-workflows/tree/feature-gpubiggan/workflows/BigGAN/gpu).
This test used 1 GPU for training. We measured the CPU usage, GPU usage and memory usage while training. 

### CPU usage

Here we notice that the BigGAN workflow consumes just less around 2 % CPU on average. 

![openshift cpu usage](https://github.com/BU-CLOUD-S20/Cloud-native-deployments-of-bare-metal-high-performance-AI-workflows/blob/master/doc/imgs/os-cpu.png)


## CPU usage multiplexed with CPU heavy workload

Now, we ran a CPU-heavy workload multiplexed with the BigGAN workflow. We see that more CPU is definitely more utilized.

![openshift cpu-multiplexed usage](https://github.com/BU-CLOUD-S20/Cloud-native-deployments-of-bare-metal-high-performance-AI-workflows/blob/master/doc/imgs/os-cpu-load.png)



## Memory usage

The memory usage lingers around 15%. For the node that we are running on, this is around 84 GB used of 541 GB available.

![openshift memory usage](https://github.com/BU-CLOUD-S20/Cloud-native-deployments-of-bare-metal-high-performance-AI-workflows/blob/master/doc/imgs/os-mem.png)

## GPU & GPU memory usage

The GPU is around 40% utilized. This might be because that the GPU is not used by other users. THe GPU memory usage stays between 5-10%.

![openshift gpu usage](https://github.com/BU-CLOUD-S20/Cloud-native-deployments-of-bare-metal-high-performance-AI-workflows/blob/master/doc/imgs/os-gpu.png)


Satori: 
- 64 1TB memory Power 9 nodes
- Each node hosts 4 NVidia V100 32GB memory GPU cards
- Within a node, GPUs are linked by an NVLink2 network that supports nearly to 200GB/s bi-directional transfer between GPUs
- A 100Gb/s Infiniband network with microsecond user space latency connects the cluster nodes togehter

OpenShift
- Red Hat Enterprise Linux 7.5, CentOS PostgreSQL 10 image
<!-- Are we sure this is running on AWS? That seems odd -->
<!-- - OpenShift Container Platform 3.10 Cluster running on AWS -->
- Container Runtime: crio-1.10.5 or docker-1.13.1
- Container Tools: podman-0.6.1, buildah-1.1, skopeo-0.1.30
- Master node: m4.xlarge
- Infra node: m4.xlarge
- Compute node: p3.2xlarge (One NVIDIA Tesla V100 GPU, 8vCPUs and 61GB RAM)

Commit message:

add software style, update images with legends

REPORT.md, after:


<h2 align="center"> Bare Metal High Performance AI Final Report </h2>

In this project, we take an AI workfow - [BigGAN](https://github.com/BU-CLOUD-S20/Cloud-native-deployments-of-bare-metal-high-performance-AI-workflows/blob/update-readme/README.md#mit-satori) in our case - that is operational in MIT's HPC [Satori](https://mit-satori.github.io/) (modded with IBM Power PC CPUs, NVIDIA V100 GPUs, etc.) and convert it to a running workflow on OpenShift ([Mass Open Cloud](https://massopen.cloud/)) to measure similarities and to delineate the process of moving an application from a bare metal environment to a cloud native platform.

The instructions to run BigGAN on Satori are [here](https://github.com/BU-CLOUD-S20/Cloud-native-deployments-of-bare-metal-high-performance-AI-workflows/blob/update-readme/README.md#mit-satori). These instructions are our starting point.

***
# Index
1. [Conclusions](#Conclusions)
2. [Running On Satori](#Running-on-Satori)
3. [Running on Mass Open Cloud](#Running-on-OpenShift-on-MOC)

|                  | MIT Satori    | MOC  |
| :-------------:  |:-------------:| -----:|
| GPU Architecture | TESLA V100 32GB | TESLA V100 32GB |
| CPU Architecture | IBM Power9      |   IBM Power9 |

# 1. Conclusions

<!-- ### 1. Efficiency 
`Measured as the ratio of useful output to total input (measured in CPU/GPU cycles here)` 
- Text for efficiency here...
  - more text here... -->

<!-- ### 2. Scalability 
`The ability of the cloud platform to function well when it's changed in size or volume in order to meet a user need (i.e. to rescale).`  -->

## 1. Elasticity

We selected the BigGAN workflow from a pool of [tutorial examples](https://mit-satori.github.io/tutorial-examples/index.html) offered on the Satori platform.  

We looked into each of the existing examples(workflows) and observed that they all used popular python-written machine learning library such as Tensorflow, PyTorch and Sklearn.  

We further investigate whether these software frameworks allow dynamic resource utilization. In other words, we want to know if these libraries allow the programs to scale-up  resource utilization when the instance(s) it's running in was(were) allocated with more computing resources.

Since the BigGAN workflow is written in PyTorch, we wil focus on discussing the possibility of running/training Pytorch programs in an "elastic manner":

### 1.1 Elasticity for PyTorch
According to Pytorch documentation [link here](https://pytorch.org/blog/pytorch-adds-new-tools-and-libraries-welcomes-preferred-networks-to-its-community/#tools-for-elastic-training-and-large-scale-computer-vision),  current PyTorch parallelism is achieved by something called **Distributed Data Parallel (DPP)** module, and it has following short-commings:  

1. Parallel jobs cannot start without aquiring all the request nodes(pod/containers).
2. Parallel jobs is not recoverable from node(pod/container) failures.
3. Parallel jobs is not able to incorporate nodes that join later.

Recently the comunity is working on incorporating **elastic training** functionality to PyTorch. Experimental implementation of the functionality can be found at [PyTorch-Elastic](https://github.com/pytorch/elastic).  

However, **PyTorch-Elastic** only supports AWS environment with Amazon Sagemaker and Elastic Kubernetes Service(EKS) and haven't support OpenShift yet.  

After discussion among group members, we figure that given the time and scope of our project, we might not be able to finish adapting **PyTorch-Elastic** to OpenShift environment and re-writing the BigGAN workflow using PyTorch-Elastic APIs by the end of the semester. We will leave it as a future TODO for now.
<!-- <h5 align="center"> shawn </h5> -->


## 2. Automation 
Compared with Satori, OpenShift does have more advantages on tasks automation. We depolyed the AI workflow on OpenShift by using `DeploymentConfig`, `BuildConfig`, `Dockerfile`. The codes of AI workflow are on the Github repository, and we can set the triggers inside `BuildConfig` which makes `BuildConfig` be triggered after we pushing new changes to the Github repository, which can build a new image based on our new codes **automatically**, and after the build finished, it will trigger `DeploymentConfig` to start deploy a container from the image built just now **automatically**. The only thing for researchers need to do is just push the new codes, and the AI workflows can be deployed **automatically** and get the result, without requesting node resources or submitting bash jobs.

![](https://www.lucidchart.com/publicSegments/view/35091b47-7861-4f5d-a2e9-5e4afddfaaaf/image.png)

## 3. Environment Comparisons
 
![Typical AI workflow](https://github.com/BU-CLOUD-S20/Cloud-native-deployments-of-bare-metal-high-performance-AI-workflows/blob/update-readme/ReadMe-image/ai-workflow.png)

### 3.1 Components

A typical AI workflow has deals with a lot state. The computation steps are resource intensive and long running. The model training step can run for a few days on the training datasets of size ~200 GB even on powerful hardware such as the Telsa V100 GPUs. The output model is contantly iterated upon during at the end of training loops, and the state is checkpointed typically at the end of every epoch.

### 3.2 Scheduling

In a traditional HPC system like Satori, to run a job, you submit a  request for specific amount of resources, e.g. 4 GPUs and 2 CPUs. The scheduler waits for the resources to free, and then assigns the job.

In a Kubernetes based environment, you make request to the scheduler, and the scheduler tries its best to provide you with the request resouces. However, it is not guaranteed that the resources alloted to you will not change during the lifecycle of the computation.


### 3.3 Software Style

One consequence of the type of resource allocation, the actual program needs to be resilient to changes in resources available to programs. Software written to be cloud native have evolved to be resilient to failures. Cloud native software generally is built with decoupled state and computation. 

Our experience with the current AI workflows is that the programs are written assuming fixed resources. There is ongoing work in major frameworks to make them elastic. However, these are not yet in active use. Software running on top of Kubernetes runs in containers. Containers are standard units of software execution. They package up all the code and dependencies, easing portability. Program State or storage is an extension to this container model. By default, all writes inside a container are lost when the container no longer exists. To persist the writes, you either mount a volume, or do writes to a stable storage outside your container. e.g. write to Amazon S3.

To move an existing AI workflow to the cloud, you have to ensure that you have access to sufficient external storage that you can store your model and data to as external volume.


### 3.4 Environment Issues
<!-- <h2 align="center"> Environment Issues </h2> -->
<!-- <h5 align="center"> shawn + jing </h5> -->

- Trouble accessing GPU(s) on MoC
  * **Solution**: Specify CUDA related environment variables in deployconfig. (worked until Sprint 4)
- Nvidia cards randomly unavailable
  * **Solution**: None.
  * **Workaround**: Try more times. (worked until Sprint 4)
- Cannot get enough quota for volume
  * **Solution**: MoC administrator granted volume to our OpenShift account.
- Pod creation timeout when mounting volume
  * **Solution**: Currently still blocked. Requires support from MoC.
  * **Workaround**: Manually copied subset of data and build into our base image to make the workflow runnable.
- Trouble pushing to internal image registry on OpenShift
  * **Description**: OpenShift reports error when pulling/pushing image to internel image registry. Possibly due to DNS mapping error on MoC. Currently we can not run any pods that uses our image on OpenShift.
  * **Solution**: Currently still blocked. Requires support from MoC.
  * **Workaround**: None.

## 4. Lessons Learned
1. We should ask for mentors' help as soon as possible instead of trying debugging the issue by ourselves so that we may not stuck into one problem for a long time.
2. We should make an alternative plan to make sure what we can at least achieve before each sprint started (based on Covid-19 situation), so we can handle the situation which may delay our progress.
3. We should set up a weekly group time for working together, which is more efficiently integrating our work (we actually started this after sprint 3).


# 2. Running on Satori

We use the instructions to run BigGAN on Satori given [here](https://github.com/BU-CLOUD-S20/Cloud-native-deployments-of-bare-metal-high-performance-AI-workflows/blob/update-readme/README.md#mit-satori). We use 2 GPUs for training. We measured the CPU usage, GPU usage and memory usage while training. 

## CPU usage

Here we notice that the BigGAN workflow consumes just less than 20 % CPU on average. 

![satori cpu usage](https://github.com/BU-CLOUD-S20/Cloud-native-deployments-of-bare-metal-high-performance-AI-workflows/blob/master/doc/imgs/sat-cpu.png)

## Memory usage

The memory usage lingers around 8.3%. For the node that we are running on, this is around 95 GB used of 1145 GB available.

![satori memory usage](https://github.com/BU-CLOUD-S20/Cloud-native-deployments-of-bare-metal-high-performance-AI-workflows/blob/master/doc/imgs/sat-mem.png)


## GPU usage

The GPUs are fully utilized, both GPUs running at almost full capacity. Take note, that this was a shared node, and there might be other users processes running on this GPU node. The workflow can be run in an exlusive node to get the exact usage by only the BigGAN process. However, exclusive nodes are very hard to get scheduled on Satori, in our experience.


![satori gpu usage](https://github.com/BU-CLOUD-S20/Cloud-native-deployments-of-bare-metal-high-performance-AI-workflows/blob/master/doc/imgs/sat-gpu.png)

## GPU Memory usage

The GPU memory is also pretty well utilized. It is Consistently measured around 80%. 

![satori gpu memory usage](https://github.com/BU-CLOUD-S20/Cloud-native-deployments-of-bare-metal-high-performance-AI-workflows/blob/master/doc/imgs/sat-gpu-mem.png)

***

# 3. Running on OpenShift on MOC

We created a docker container that runs the training process of BigGAN. We modified the instructions to run BigGAN on Satori, and use the scripts [here](https://github.com/BU-CLOUD-S20/Cloud-native-deployments-of-bare-metal-high-performance-AI-workflows/tree/feature-gpubiggan/workflows/BigGAN/gpu).
This test used 1 GPU for training. We measured the CPU usage, GPU usage and memory usage while training. 

### CPU usage

Here we notice that the BigGAN workflow consumes just less around 2 % CPU on average. 

![openshift cpu usage](https://github.com/BU-CLOUD-S20/Cloud-native-deployments-of-bare-metal-high-performance-AI-workflows/blob/master/doc/imgs/os-cpu.png)


## CPU usage multiplexed with CPU heavy workload

Now, we ran a CPU-heavy workload multiplexed with the BigGAN workflow. We see that more CPU is definitely more utilized.

![openshift cpu-multiplexed usage](https://github.com/BU-CLOUD-S20/Cloud-native-deployments-of-bare-metal-high-performance-AI-workflows/blob/master/doc/imgs/os-cpu-load.png)



## Memory usage

The memory usage lingers around 15%. For the node that we are running on, this is around 84 GB used of 541 GB available.

![openshift memory usage](https://github.com/BU-CLOUD-S20/Cloud-native-deployments-of-bare-metal-high-performance-AI-workflows/blob/master/doc/imgs/os-mem.png)

## GPU & GPU memory usage

The GPU is around 40% utilized. This might be because that the GPU is not used by other users. THe GPU memory usage stays between 5-10%.

![openshift gpu usage](https://github.com/BU-CLOUD-S20/Cloud-native-deployments-of-bare-metal-high-performance-AI-workflows/blob/master/doc/imgs/os-gpu.png)


Satori: 
- 64 1TB memory Power 9 nodes
- Each node hosts 4 NVidia V100 32GB memory GPU cards
- Within a node, GPUs are linked by an NVLink2 network that supports nearly to 200GB/s bi-directional transfer between GPUs
- A 100Gb/s Infiniband network with microsecond user space latency connects the cluster nodes togehter

OpenShift
- Red Hat Enterprise Linux 7.5, CentOS PostgreSQL 10 image
<!-- Are we sure this is running on AWS? That seems odd -->
<!-- - OpenShift Container Platform 3.10 Cluster running on AWS -->
- Container Runtime: crio-1.10.5 or docker-1.13.1
- Container Tools: podman-0.6.1, buildah-1.1, skopeo-0.1.30
- Master node: m4.xlarge
- Infra node: m4.xlarge
- Compute node: p3.2xlarge (One NVIDIA Tesla V100 GPU, 8vCPUs and 61GB RAM)
